# Programmierprojekt Optimierungsalgorithmen

## Game Plan

- [ ] Implement an abstract search
- [ ] Implement a local search
- [ ] Implement a greedy search
- [ ] Implement the optimization problem
- [ ] Implement a GUI for visualization
- [ ] Implement a testing environment

## Optimization Problem

Given a finite sum of rectangles of integer sidelengths and an overall box length L:
Find a placement of all the rectangles such that they **do not overlap**, are either **aligned on the x or y axis** and that they **fit inside a set of squares of length L**.
Further, minimize the number of squares needed.

### Generation of problem instances

Inputs:

- Side length L
- Number of rectangles
- Upper/lower bound for side lengths

Outputs:

- Number of rectangles specified
- Uniformly random side lengths within the bounds

### Neighborhood definitions

The following neighborhood selections should be selectable

#### Geometry based

A neighbor can be generated by moving rectangles within one box or to another.

#### Rule based

Works on permutations of rectangles.
The neighborhood is thus a modification of the permutations.

#### Geometry with adjustable overlap

Like above, but rectangles can overlap by X% of their summed areas. Start at 100% allowed overlap and reduce as time increases to find an optimal solution.

## GUI

User should be able to

- generate an instance
- select the algorithm
- select a neighborhood relation
- see the algorithm in action

## Testing

Let the program run parametrized in (#Instances, #Rectangles, upper/lower bounds, L) to benchmark.
Every algorithm is applied, results plus CPU time are recorded and printed.
